My game idea has changed drastically from my initial game pitch up until now. My first idea was initially going to be a Broforce-style run-and-gun shooter with a guilt component that limits the amount of people that the player kills. However, after many, many mental iterations, my game idea has evolved into more of a Papers, Please type of game, in the sense that the majority of the game is played in one location (e.g. the boarder checkpoint in Papers, Please), there is one central mechanic (accept/deny immigrants) that is progressively complicated by multiple different factors, and that the player has to make certain moral decisions that will affect the later state of the game. 


The new premise of my game is that the player is a missile drone operator tasked with bombing buildings containing enemy terrorists. However, these buildings also contain hostages, and since the missiles are not exactly precise, the player has to deal with the collateral damages of letting some hostages die in order to successfully kill the terrorists. This is all played on one screen and will progressively be made more complex via other factors, as shown in my notes.


I think Clune hits on something that I really want to try to reproduce in my game, and its the concept of being “inside” the game. Clune is the man that is cryogenically immobilized in Suspended, and he is the person that is interfacing with the robots, not the character he is playing. He is the one that dies when he fails the game, and as he says, he dies “a trillion times.” I can draw some parallels between Clune’s experience in Suspended and the experience I want my player to have. I want my player to feel like they are inside the game. I want them to feel like they are the ones controlling the missile drone, and that they are the ones killing terrorists and killing hostages. This makes the themes of guilt a lot more palpable.


Another parallel that I can draw is the fact that, in Suspended, Clune can’t interface with the environment except through machines. He can only see, hear, feel, move through his robots. In my game, I want a similar vibe for my game–the player can’t actually interface with the terrorists they kill or the hostages that die, except through the little screen in which they are looking at.